---
template: plain
title: October 2, 2020
headline: October 2, 2020
lead: New Components, Icons, Color and Previews! 
---

## :art: Base

<Description>

- **Colors:** We’ve added Green-600 to provide an accessible Green for backgrounds. We’ve also updated Gray-900 to #1d1d21 to improve contrast and enable the change to Links. @JJ has combed through Figma to ensure these broad changes shouldn’t cause any breaking changes.
- **Icons:** Caution, Copy, Filter, and Error icons are now available. We’ve also updated the "Complete" icon to help differentiate it from a plain check. Thank you to those who brought specific use cases to us over the past month - keep em coming!

</Description>

## 🧩 Components

<Description>

- **Toast** Our first transient messaging component. You can read more about use cases and check out the new UI in our docs. Special thanks to Nicolas B. for his early work here! (Joe J./Shred)
- **Search** We’ve introduced two variants for Search inputs, including an attached-button style. This initial version doesn’t include support for more robust functionality like autocomplete, but we think it’s a good start. (Joe J./Shred)
- **Links** Say goodbye to underlines! This is one of our most requested changes, and we’ve finally reached an accessible solution. With the update to our body copy color, our standard links no longer require another affordance. (Shred)
- **Styled HTML** This month, we’ve added styling for pre-formatted text (pre), description lists (dl), and detail disclosures  (details/summary). If you’re unfamiliar with any of these elements, I highly recommend you check out our examples in the docs! (Shred)

</Description>

## ⚒️ Infrastructure

<Description>

- **CI Changes** transitioned away away from TravisCI in favor of GitHub actions!
- **Continuous Deployment** We are now automagically deploying previews when a pull request is opened. The deployment (or preview) is re-deployed every time a commit is pushed to the open pull request. Additionally, a [slack channel](https://okta.slack.com/archives/C01BF6S2LNB) has been created which posts messages when new previews are deployed! (Arnie)

</Description>

<!-- ## 📐 Design -->
